# Predicting Readability of Texts Using Machine Learning

When we look at the present age, we see a lot of articles and reading materials available by different authors and bloggers. As a result, we see text all around us and there is a lot to do with the text. Since there are more and more books and articles being produced everyday, it becomes important that one uses the text information and understand them so that they would be able to make the best use of it. 

There are texts of different difficulty levels being created and there could be different age groups exposed to these texts. Sometimes a high difficulty text might be given to a child who is just about 10 years of age. On the contrary, a low difficulty text might be given to a highly educated individual who might easily understand the text that lacks much knowledge. Therefore, it becomes important to understand and predict the readability of the text and the difficulty associated with it so that different level texts could be given to different individuals based on their difficulty respectively. 

With machine learning and deep learning, it is possible to predict the readability of the text and understand some of the important features that determine the difficulty respectively. Therefore, we have to consider a few important parameters when determining the difficulty of different machine learning models respectively. We have to take into consideration the difficulty of the text along with other important features such as the number of syllables and the difficulty of the words in order to determine the overall level of the text. 

We have to use the Natural Language Processing (NLP) when we are dealing with the text respectively. Since we have a text, we have to use various processing techniques so that they are considered into forms that could be easy for machine learning purposes. Once those values are converted into vectors, we are going to use them by giving them to different machine learning and deep learning models with different set of layers respectively. Since the output values are continuous in nature, it can be considered as a regression problem.

The machine learning models that we are going to be using are regressors where there are different regressors which we are going to take for predictions respectively. Since we are having continuous values as the output, we are going to be taking the mean squared error and the mean absolute error as the metrics. 

In addition to this, deep neural networks are also used in predicting the difficulty of the text respectively. For that, a function is created that would take into account the depth of the neural network along with some important features such as the input shape and other parameters before building a model for predictions. We are first going to train the deep neural network and see how well it performs on the cross-validation data. Moreover, we are going to tune the hyperparameters that are important for deep learning and alter those values to see how well the machine learning model performs on the test set. 

It is also important to plot the results to get an understanding of the performance of different machine learning and deep learning models. One interesting observation that was found in the deep neural network was that with the increase in the number of epochs, the training error keeps decreasing whereas the cross-validation error increases after certain threshold is met. 

We would be working with different machine learning and deep learning algorithms and understand some of the important metrics that are needed for the problem at hand. We see that since the target that we are going to be predicting is continuous, we are going to be using the regression machine learning techinques so that we get continuous output.
